Ex. 10 Study of PROLOG

Prolog Study

o Prolog stands for programming in logic. In the logic programming paradigm, prolog
language is most widely available. Prolog is a declarative language, which means that
a program consists of data based on the facts and rules (Logical relationship) rather than
computing how to find a solution. A logical relationship describes the relationships
which hold for the given application.

o To obtain the solution, the user asks a question rather than running a program. When a
user asks a question, then to determine the answer, the run time system searches through
the database of facts and rules.

o Starting Prolog

o Prolog system is straightforward. From one person to other person, the precise details
of Prolog will vary. Prolog will produce a number of lines of headings in the starting,
which is followed by a line. It contains just
o ?-
o The above symbol shows the system prompt. The prompt is used to show that the Prolog
system is ready to specify one or more goals of sequence to the user. Using a full stop,
we can terminate the sequence of goals.
o ?- write('Welcome to Javatpoint'),nl,write('Example of Prolog'),nl.
o nl indicates 'start a new line'. When we press 'return' key, the above line will show the
effect like this:
o Welcome to Javatpoint
o Example of Prolog

o yes
o ?- prompt shows the sequence of goal which is entered by the user. The user will not
type the prompt. Prolog system will automatically generate this prompt. It means that
it is ready to receive a sequence of goals.
o The above example shows a sequence of goals entered by the user like this:
o write('Welcome to Javatpoint'), write('Example of Prolog'), nl(twice).
Consider the following sequence of goals:
write('Welcome to AI'),nl,write('Example of Prolog'),nl.
The above sequence of goals has to succeed in order to be succeeded.
o write('Welcome to AI')On the screen of the user, Welcome to AI has to be displayed
o nl
On the screen of the user, a new line has to be output
o write('Example of Prolog')
o On the screen of the user, Example of Prolog has to be displayed
o nl
On the screen of the user, a new line has to be output
All these goals will simply achieve by the Prolog system by outputting the line of text to the
screen of the user. To show that the goals have succeeded, we will output yes.
The Prolog system predefined the meanings of nl and write. Write and nl are called as built-in
predicates.
Halt and statistics are the two other built-in predicates. In almost all Prolog versions, these
predicates are provided as standard.
